# detection_random_domain_name_generation
With the increasing importance of network, network security becomes more and more demanding in almost every aspect. In 2015, IBM and Ponemon Institute conducted research on the cost due to data breach in 62 companies. The average cost of data breach is $6.5 million [1]. In order to break into target system and make more damage, the infected hosts need to connect back to command & control (C2) by domain name generation algorithms to get more commands or payload. DGA generates a large number of domain names randomly which can be meeting points with their C2 servers. The domain name is generated randomly and periodically. There are many domain generation algorithm (DGA), such as conficker, cryptolocker, ramdo and so on. Those algorithms generate domains pseudo-randomly by the seed which is shared by malware and threat actor. The threat actor knows the sequence of connection by malware. Therefore, it is really hard to detect it. As to the attacker, the economics are really good, while it is cost intensive for defender. The attackers only need to generate the domain names and register them if they will be used in the attacking process. However, as to the defenders, they need to figure out all of the possible domains and put them into blacklist. The security practitioners need to reverse engineer the DGA. This is so time- and resource- intensive. Even if the defenders figure out what exactly the algorithm is, the attackers can modify the original code to have a new group of domains [2]. In this project, three different language models: perplexity of bigram language model, K-L distance with bigram distribution and K-L distance with unigram distribution, are applied to detect random generated malicious domain names. We only focus on the domain name without contextual information. In addition, we do not need to figure out how the DGA works and the time to detect DGA is fast since all of the analysis is based on the domain name itself. The assumption of this approach is that DGA tends to not use the well-formed and pronounceable language words since the domains are generated randomly. Most of the registered domains are constructed by the legitimate words. Therefore, the DGA domain names will use characteristics with a different distribution as the legitimate domain names.
